This is a proclamation or a declaration by a group of Levites. It was done. They made this proclamation
or really a prayer to Jehovah after the wall around Jerusalem had been rebuilt back in 455 BCE.
And this is what was said. You are Jehovah, the true God, who chose Abraham and brought him out
of Ur of the Caldians and gave him the name Abraham. You found his heart faithful before you,
so you made a covenant with him to give him the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites,
the Parasites, the Jebiusites, and the Gurgishites. Then it says, to give it to his offspring,
and you kept your promises because you are righteous. And that's interesting that last statement,
how is righteousness or Jehovah's righteousness connected to Israel becoming his chosen people?
They didn't, as a people, really merit it or deserve it, but the point is Jehovah honored
his promise to Abraham. And that's why Jehovah is declared righteous by the Levites. They
recognized that it was due to a promise made to their forefather that they were chosen by God as
his nation, his people, and that he gave them the promised land. But the thing is that the idea
of carrying out your words, that latter part there, or the second half of the scripture, and you
proceeded to carry out your words because you are righteous. And that's what people do, people
who are righteous, who have self-respect and who honor their promises. And Jehovah God expects us
to always be true to our word, to honor our promises. Now, that's not easy to do. Sometimes
we'll find ourselves in a situation where it may be quite difficult to follow through and honor
our word. But consider what Jesus said. Remember the scripture at Matthew 5, 37.
Just let your word yes, mean yes. You're no, no. But then that interesting addition
for what goes beyond these is from the wicked one. But we know who the wicked one is. It's Satan
the devil. And his goals were deception and disruption. Satan had no intention of fulfilling what
he promised, Eve. In fact, he was incapable. He couldn't fulfill it. He told her, you will not die.
That was a bald lie right from the beginning. And he was unable to comply with what he said.
And isn't that true? There are people like that today. They'll tell you things. They'll promise
things. But they have no intention of fulfilling them. And those who do that are under the influence
of Satan the devil. There are things that we say yes to. There are promises that we make that we
don't want to break. And foremost is our our vow, our promise, our dedication to serve Jehovah forever.
We say yes three times. The watchtower pointed that out. It was interesting. We say yes when we
are interviewed by an elder to become an unbaptized publisher. We say yes, I want to be a Jehovah's
witness. And then we say yes again when we go over the questions for baptism that we've dedicated
our life to Jehovah and we want to serve him. We believe what the Scriptures teach. We want to
give our life to our God. And then the third time we say yes when we're at the assembly, usually it's
an assembly where the baptism talk is given and we answer the questions and say yes. And we make
a public declaration of our dedication to Jehovah God. So we put our hand to the plow.
We don't want to take our hand off the plow. We promised to fulfill our dedication vow, our promise
in this regard. And really that helps make us righteous in a sense, not self-righteous. That's
disgusting to God. But righteous in that we're we have self-respect. We're honoring our word. We want to
honor our great God, Jehovah. There's another yes that we say that we want to be loyal to.
That's the yes when we take the marriage vow. They should not be broken. The marriage vow is,
it's interesting about vows. Usually vows are vows require us to do something. It's not that we
get something when we make a vow. But usually if we make a vow it's because we're going to do
something and that's the way it is with the marriage vow. It's to do things, to obey, to love,
to cherish, for a wife it's to respect deeply. But the marriage vow has more to do with giving
than it has to do with receiving. And for those of us who are married don't we appreciate the
good effect it has on us to recognize that this arrangement, the marital arrangement is from Jehovah.
What a good thing that is it makes it so much more powerful to have success in our marriage. We're
more determined to honor our marriage arrangement. And there's something else too. The binding power
of our individual spiritual relationship with Jehovah plays a vital role in our marriage because
we don't just see our mate. We see Jehovah. This is his arrangement. And we honor Jehovah. We honor
our word to him before him. Then we're going to work very hard to make a success of our marriage.
And as the years go by we find genuine pleasure in our marital relationship. As time goes on it
gets better. Some people just put up with one another in a marital arrangement. That's not what
Jehovah wants. Jehovah wants us to have a genuine friendship, intimate friendship with our mate
and to genuinely enjoy each other. There's a traditional maxim that says a man
is as good as his word. Doesn't that tie in well with what we're discussing this morning?
Jehovah he certainly was faithful to his word. It makes me think of a brother that I know
he's a contractor and consort him a group of investors got together and they wanted him to
run their company for them. And so he met with them and he laid it out before them very,
very straight. He said, look, he said, I live by certain Bible principles. I'm one of Jehovah's
witnesses. So I want you to know at the outset that I will not take advantage of the client.
I will not cheat the workers. I will be 100% honest in everything I do. I will not use inferior
material. I'm going to follow the contract and do exactly as I should do. Now if you can live
with that I'll take the job. Well they said fine, fine, we want you. That's why we've approached
you. But a little time went by and a couple of the investors said, you know we can make more money
though. If you would cut a few corners here and there and the brother then got together with all
of them and he reminded them, look, I told you at the outset where I stand on these things. Now
if you can't live with me being 100% honest in my dealings with all of these things,
then I'm leaving. I don't need the job. Well, of course they rallied then and they said, oh no,
no, please because they had an honest man. After all, if he wouldn't cheat the client, if he wouldn't
deal harshly or wrongly with the employees, he certainly isn't going to cheat the investors
so what a beautiful thing. Being a man of one's word and following through it brings
honor to Jehovah and doesn't it make us happy when we hear experiences like that of brothers who
are firm and stand up. They're not afraid to stand firm for what they know is right. They're people
of their word and Jehovah undoubtedly blesses them.